♪Opening Song♪
[footsteps]
[ZEN, HANA pants]
[ZEN] It's just a
little further, Hana.
[HANA]
Mm.
[ZEN]
We're almost there.
Hana!
This bridge may be old,
but it has a lot of character.
And it's the only way over.
Guess I'll have to cross it.
[gasps]
[GINKO]
Whoa!
This thing's about to collapse!
[GINKO sighs]
That was close.
[GINKO]
Hm?
I assume you live around here?
That's right.
This bridge won't
hold much longer.
And I'm going to need
it to get back across.
I see. Yeah, You're right.
We'll have to get it fixed.
How long are you here?
Well, to be honest,
I don't know for sure.
I'm trying to find the
woman who sent this letter.
Do you know her?
[gasps]
[ZEN]
Yeah...
Thank you so much for coming.
Please, come in. Have a seat.
[HANA'S MOTHER]
This is my daughter, Hana.
Three years ago,
she fell from the bridge
just outside the village.
As you can see, she survived.
But she's never been the same.
All she does is sit
around outside in a daze.
[HANA'S MOTHER] I've taken
her to see several doctors,
and they all say the same thing.
There's no sign of head injury.
No one knows why
she's like this.
[footsteps]
[GINKO]
You're still here?
[ZEN]
Yeah. So, how's Hana?
Did you see her?
Oh, do you know that girl?
Are you two friends?
We were.
The reason she's like that ...
...is my fault.
I beg you!
Won't you please help her?
Take me to the
bottom of the valley.
Down there.
And then... tell me
everything you know about
what happened when Hana fell.
--[HANA sobs]
--[ZEN] Come on, Hana.
Don't cry.
An arranged marriage
from the Main House.
What am I supposed to do now?
If you refuse it,
they'll cut off their
support to our village.
And we can't have that.
[sobbing continues]
Right.
Like they'd let you refuse.
Let's run away.
Zen, no.
I-If we did that,
both of our families
would be ostracized
from the village!
My parents would understand.
I know it!
And I'm certain if your parents
really wanted you to be happy,
then I know that they
would understand, too!
Hana, we'll never be
together if we stay.
Let's leave this village
and cross the mountains.
We'll find somewhere
beautiful to live together!
Hana, please!
Do it for us.
Careful It's weak there. Okay?
[HANA]
Zen...
What's the matter?
[HANA]
I can't do it.
I... I don't think that
we can ever be happy,
knowing what our
families will go through.
Hana...
[HANA] I can put up
with the way things are,
as long as I know that
you'll love me forever.
You will, won't you?
And even if I have to
hide my true feelings,
I will always love you.
Nothing that happens
will ever change that.
But, Hana...
I don't want that!
Come on!
Let's cross the bridge
and get out of here!
[HANA gasps]
Please, Hana!
[whimpers]
Hana!
[MALE VILLAGERS whisper]
[ZEN]
Find her?
[MALE VILLAGER C]
No.
[ZEN]
Huh?
[ZEN gasps]
[ZEN] No one could have survived
a fall from that height.
Yet Hana came back,
walking on her own two feet.
But she was different.
Empty.
A shell of who she used to be.
[ZEN]
After that,
people were saying that she
had become a tanimodori.
Tanimodori?
[ZEN] It means "One who
returns from the valley."
[ZEN]
Every once in a great while,
someone falls into the
valley and comes back,
but without their souls.
Then, on the night when
the One-Night Bridge appears,
they die.
It's just a legend, really.
The One-Night Bridge?
Some people say
that they've seen
a mysterious bridge that
appears for just one night.
But no one's spoken of
it in a long, long time.
[gasps]
Something wrong?
[GINKO]
No.
Looks like it's here.
[ZEN]
What's here?
[GINKO] The same things
that have taken over Hana.
Taken over?
What are you talking about?
[GINKO] By rope-like Mushi
called nisekazura.
Mushi?
What are they?
[GINKO] They're difficult
for most people to see.
[GINKO] Hm. Awfully weak
for nisekazura.
[GINKO] But they don't
break if you pull them
in the opposite direction, just
like the ones I've read about.
The sunlight's not
shining through.
[GINKO] They gather near
the remaining sunlight.
[GINKO] This place doesn't get
sufficient light from the sun.
How'd it go?
Did you learn anything?
This might be
difficult for you.
[gasps]
[GINKO] I think the tanimodori
and the One-Night Bridge
might not be just legends.
Both of them can be explained
by the nisekazura.
[GINKO] Usually, the nisekazura
live in the tops of trees.
But the ones living
in this valley
are taking over the
bodies of living beings,
most likely in an attempt
to leave this place.
They need sunlight in order
to survive, but they lack the
ability to climb out of
the valley on their own.
[GINKO] So they reside
in the bodies of animals
to get more sunlight and
build up their strength.
Once enough of
them have done so,
they leave the
bodies of their hosts,
gather a herd, and begin
to migrate far away.
To a place more
suitable for them.
That's probably what
the One-Night Bridge is.
I've heard a similar
story once before:
A valley where there is
a crossing of mushi
once every twenty years.
Then why?
Why is it that the tanimodori
always have to die?
I mean Shouldn't they
just return to normal
once the Mushi
leave their bodies?
I've searched this valley.
There are no animal bones here.
It's likely that the nisekazura
are living in the bodies
of the dead, as well.
If that's the case,
once they leave the body,
all that would remain
would be the corpse.
[ZEN gasps]
[ZEN]
No.
It's not true.
That means that Hana...
It's this year!
The last time that
someone saw the bridge
was the same year that my
grandfather turned forty.
His 60th birthday's this year!
[gasps]
[ZEN]
Is there any way to delay it?
Not likely.
But there must be
something you can do!
I'm not asking you to return
her to the way she was before,
I just want her to live
a little bit longer.
Please!
You don't mean...
I'm afraid so.
By remaining as she is,
she stands the best chance
of prolonging her life.
But this mushi. It is possible
to remove it, right?
It is.
But as I said before,
doing so would most
likely lead to her death.
Then Just do it.
Do you think she's
happy living this way?
Even if it's just a remote
chance, it's worth trying.
But There's no need to do
anything that drastic.
If she somehow managed
to survive the fall
three years ago,
then she'll return to normal
once the One-Night
Bridge appears.
How can you say that?!
There's no way to prove
that this "bridge"
really even exists!
If Hana returns to normal,
she has a good marriage
offer waiting for her.
I can't keep the other
family waiting any longer!
[GINKO] I'm sorry,
but I cannot do this.
I know she's not the same
person she was before,
But whatever she is...
...she's alive.
I will not treat
her like a "thing".
[footsteps]
[ZEN]
Huh. Well, what do you know.
Hey! Ginko!
[GINKO]
Zen. Good to see you.
[ZEN]
Leaving already?
[GINKO]
Well, I'd like to.
Don't worry.
I should have the bridge fixed
by tomorrow afternoon.
You can stay with me tonight.
[GINKO]
So, you live alone out here?
My family has a home
in the village.
But as for myself, I was
banished from that place.
People around here want
nothing to do with me.
Have you ever thought about
moving away from here?
Sure.
I've thought about it before.
But this is where
my Hana lives.
If she happens to die,
I'm sure I'd be leaving
not too long after.
[wood creaking]
What was that noise?
--[wood cracking]
--[GINKO gasps]
[MALE VILLAGER D]
So, it finally fell.
Well, maybe it's because
you went across it.
Other than you, no one's
gone across recently.
Whatever.
So how will it take to fix it?
Please let it be soon.
It's hard to say, really.
We'll have to work on
it in our spare time.
Tough luck. I hope
you weren't in a hurry.
[GINKO]
Damnit.
This is just great.
[HANA'S MOTHER]
Zen!
I know that you've been hiding
that mushi master here!
He and I have some
unfinished business!
Oh, you're kidding me.
Huh?
If that's another tanimodori...
...then there could be more
of them around here.
[ZEN grunts]
[cracking]
[ZEN]
Huh?
Hana?
What's wrong?
Where are you going?
Hana?
[gasps]
[ZEN]
You're warm.
That means you're
still alive, aren't you.
[ZEN]
Right, Hana?
You're still alive.
I knew it.
You've just
forgotten everything.
[MALE VILLAGER F]
Over there!
Hana!
Zen!
What do you think you're doing?!
I told you not to ever
come near her again!
[HANA grunts]
[HANA'S MOTHER]
Hana!
She's not breathing!
No! Hana!
[ZEN gasps]
[GINKO]
Zen! What happened?
It's Hana.
She just died.
[gasps]
[ZEN]
Some kind of black thread...
...came out of the
back of her neck.
[GINKO]
I see...
It's time.
Come with me. Leave this place.
There's nothing left here now.
[ZEN gasps]
But...
The One-Night Bridge.
It think it's
happening tonight.
[gasps]
[GINKO] We should be able
to cross it from this side.
This entire area is
full of nisekazura.
They've gained enough strength
that even you should
be able to see them.
[GINKO] You have to
decide before midnight.
If we miss this chance,
there's no telling when
the next one will be.
[GINKO]
You came.
There's no turning back.
If you try to, you'll fall.
[GINKO]
Don't worry. We'll make it.
[ZEN]
Yeah...
He's right.
No turning back.
[ZEN]
Once I leave this place,
I can put everything that
happened here behind me.
[gasps]
[GINKO]
Hey, What's wrong?
What are you doing?
I told you! You can't go back!
[ZEN]
I can't go on.
The one that was
Hana is right here.
Listen to me!
Hana died three years ago!
That wasn't her!
No. You're wrong.
It was all that kept me going.
Knowing that she was alive
these past three years.
It was hard seeing
her like that.
Like she was empty inside.
But now, after everything
that's happened,
I think it was
better that way.
I won't step on her.
I can't go on.
Zen! No!
[GINKO] I don't know
exactly what happened
to him after that
night on the bridge.
[GINKO]
But, in all probability.
Huh?
[GINKO] It will be
another twenty years
before that bridge will
span the valley again.
A bridge that appears
for just one night.
[NARRATOR]
Next: "Inside The Cage."